# mdsStateMachine

mdsStateMachine is a FaaS, Functions as a Service, agnostic application that attempts to mirror the functionality provided by AWS Step Functions upon various FaaS implementations. This project attempts to adhere to the [Amazon States Language](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/concepts-amazon-states-language.html) as closely as possible in the event that one may eventually migrate their mdsStateMachine definition and FaaS code to the AWS infrastructure in the future.

## FaaS Support

| FaaS Implementation                        | Support Level  |
|--------------------------------------------|----------------|
| [fnProject](https://github.com/fnproject)  | In Development |
| [OpenWhisk](https://openwhisk.apache.org/) | Planned        |

## Getting Started

Please see the getting started guide for the FaaS platform you are planning to use.

* [fnProject](/mdsStateMachine/blob/master/docs/fnProject/Getting_Started.md)

### Design guidelines

* Data should be as short lived in the system as possible. A different system should be responsible for reporting on executions/operations.
    * The intent here is to keep any data store as responsive as possible by keeping the data as a transactional store. Reporting is outsourced to a system more suited.
* Executions should be disposable and asynchronous. All data generated by an operation should be persisted in an external store if it is needed by the caller.
    * Data generated by an operation as output will be supplied to the next operation's input.
    * If a user needs to signal other systems upon completion of a state machine consider using a message bus of some sort, e.g. a Redis queue or RabbitMQ queue.
